# TSBS Supplemental Guide: VictoriaMetrics

VictoriaMetrics is fast, cost-effective and scalable time-series database.
It can be used as long-term remote storage for Prometheus.
This supplemental guide explains how the data generated for TSBS is stored,
additional flags available when using the data importer (`tsbs_load_victoriametrics`),
and additional flags available for the query runner (`tsbs_run_queries_victoriametrics`).
**This should be read *after* the main README.**

## Data format

Data generated by `tsbs_generate_data` for VictoriaMetrics is serialized in
the same format as for InfluxDB. This is "pseudo-CSV" format, each reading
is composed of a single line where the name of the table is the first item,
a comma, followed by several comma-separated items of tags in the format
of `<label>=<value>`, a space, several comma-separated items of fields
in the format of `<label>=<value>`, a space, and finally the timestamp
for the reading.

An example for the `cpu-only` use case:
```text
cpu,hostname=host_0,region=eu-central-1,datacenter=eu-central-1b,rack=21,os=Ubuntu15.10,arch=x86,team=SF,service=6,service_version=0,service_environment=test usage_user=58.1317132304976170,usage_system=2.6224297271376256,usage_idle=24.9969495069947882,usage_nice=61.5854484633778867,usage_iowait=22.9481393231639395,usage_irq=63.6499207106198313,usage_softirq=6.4098777048301052,usage_steal=44.8799140503027445,usage_guest=80.5028770761136201,usage_guest_nice=38.2431182911542820 1451606400000000000
```

---

## `tsbs_load_victoriametrics` Additional Flags

#### `-urls` (type: `string`, default: `http://localhost:8428/write`)

Comma-separated list of URLs to connect to for inserting data.  It can be
just a single-version URL or list of VMInsert URLs. Workers will be
distributed in a round robin fashion across the URLs.

---

## Generating queries

VictoriaMetrics supports PromQL which has some limitations
comparing to SQL. Because of this VcitoriaMetrics query generator
lacks of query type `groupby-orderby-limit` implementation.

---

## `tsbs_run_queries_victoriametrics` Additional Flags

#### `-urls` (type: `string`, default: `http://localhost:8428`)

Comma-separated list of URLs to connect to for querying. It can be
just a single-version URL or list of VMSelect URLs. Workers will be
distributed in a round robin fashion across the URLs.